In this hands-on activity,
we will be looking at graph data in Gephi.
First, we will import data into Gephi and
then examine the properties of the graph.
Next, we will perform some statistical
operations on the graph data,
and then run some different
layout algorithms.
Let's begin.
We're not running Gephi in the Cloudera
virtual machine, on the Coursera website,
there will be a reading with instructions
on how to download, install, and
run Gephi on your native hardware,
instead of in the virtual machine.
Once you have Gephi started,
let's import the data into Gephi.
We'll go to File Import spreadsheet,
and in the CSV dialog,
we'll click the button with dot, dot, dot.
We'll choose diseasegraph.csv and
click open.
Make sure that as table says
edges table Click next.
And make sure Create
missing nodes is checked.
We'll click finish to import
the CSV file as a graph.
Gephi now shows the graph
in the center pane.
The little black circles
are the nodes of the graph and
the lines between them are the edges.
In the top right we can see that
there are 777 nodes and 998 edges.
Next let's perform some statistical
operations on this graph.
In the statistics pane we
can see average degree.
Let's compute the average degree
of the graph by clicking on Run.
This says that the average
degree is 2.569.
Let's close this,
let's compute the connected
components, we'll click on Run.
We'll leave this as a directed,
since the graph is directed.
Click OK.
It says that there
are 5 weakly connected components,
and 761 strongly connected components.
Let's close this.
Next, let's run some different
layout algorithms over the graph.
The bottom left,
we'll go to choose layout.
We'll choose Force Atlas and click run.
Click stop to stop the layout.
We can see that Gephi has grouped
strongly connected components together
in different clusters.
We can also see that they're parts
of the graph that are not connected.
Let's run a different layout algorithm.
The combo box,
choose Fruchterman Reingold, click run.
After it runs for a few seconds, click
stop, then click the magnifying glass,
center on graph, to see the whole graph.
In this layout,
all the nodes appear to be equally spaced.
But we can also see
the nodes with many edges.